
A hundred years ago, the changes in technology for cars where by magnitude per decade. The doubled speed and power, reach and effortibility. For the frist fourty or so years this, it is amazing how this technology developed. But also the impact these developments had on their environment: double the speed meant crossing the country in days instead of weeks, suddenly you could supply the other part of the country with fresh products, which would get bad on long journeys. But if you think back the last, say three decades, what really has changed in automobile technology? Well, actually, a lot: cars got more efficient, a car from 1980 wouldn't stand a chance compared to a car from today. But how much impact did this technology have? Well, almost none.

Just think about it. The entry level car still requires roughly the same amount of money from the person it did thirty years ago, the levels of cars are tied to their customer base and the efficiency mostly went into making it more comfy. Still my parents were able to travel accross europe with their car back than as I am now. And the time it took them maybe differs by percent but most definetily not by magnitude compared to today. Though engines got at least twice as efficient and routes lasting at least four times what they did back then.

The same goes for the telephone. When it first came out, it's impact was tremendous. And though the pace of development in that area surely didn't decrease but if anything feel to run faster than ever before: just think about the step from mobile to smartphone to apps-for-everything. And if you look at developing countries and how mobile cell phone coverage changes the landscape -- literally -- you understand what I am talking about. It is quite a leap forward. And though are Apps and mobile computing. As a technology. But is it the same for the people using them? Does it really make much of a difference that it run twice as many apps twice as fast? Though this is a magnitude better, is this also doubling the net impact on people lives? I don't think so.

If so, I am wondering, when did this happen. What was the technology leap that didn't increase the impact on peoples on the same magnitude anymore? And if we could graph this net impact out, what does a graph look like? Because I believe there must be a curve, it is probably running logarithmic, it eases out. How else could you explain why development continues and even gets stronger if arguably the net impact doesn't evolve anymore. And what if we'd actually take these efforts, we put into those last 10% of making a technology more comfortable and instead put them towards developing another technology which still has higher potential?